Institute of Aeronautical Engineering (IARE), Hyderabad was established in the year 2000 and is run by Maruthi Educational Society founded by a devoted group of eminent professional and industrialists having a long and outstanding experience in educational system with a mission ‘Education for Liberation’. It is the first institute to start B.Tech program in Aeronautical Engineering in the state of Telangana and has gradually transformed itself into an integrated multi-disciplinary technological institute. It is the most preferred institute with 100% admissions in the state of Telangana.

IARE is a prestigious  Autonomous engineering college offering eleven B.Tech programs Computer Science and Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning), Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science), Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security), Computer Science and Information Technology, Information Technology, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering and six M.Tech programs in engineering and MBA (Master of Business Administration) with 21 years of rich standing in the educational sphere. The institute is approved by AICTE, New Delhi; recognized by Govt. of Telangana; permanently affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad (JNTUH); and accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with ‘A’ Grade. All the seven B.Tech programs are accredited thrice by National Board of Accreditation (NBA), New Delhi since 2008. The institute also received UGC recognition under Sections 2(f) and 12(B) of the UGC Act.

The institute is ranked 159 in Engineering category as per National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)  – 2021, Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Govt. of India. This illustrates positive performance and quality standards we maintain in Teaching, Research, Employability, and Innovation. Categorized as 'Band B' institution (rank band 26-50) in category of ‘Private or Self-Financed College/Institutes’ in Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievement (ARIIA) – 2020, as per MHRD’s Innovation Cell, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India.

Besides the institute has been ranked by different independent national agencies which include Careers 360 (AAAA), India Today (57), The Week (87), Times of India (79), Competition Success Review (17), Outlook (Rank Band:126-170), Data Quest (59), Business World (60).

The total number of students is 4952 and that of faculty is 292, out of which, 82 are Ph.D’s (33%) ensuring healthy faculty student ratio. The research activity on campus is woven in pursuance of its vision & mission statements around the philosophy of Inspire, Innovate and Implement to benefit the contemporary society. It unwinds itself into different fields such as environment, aerospace, PLC, CAD/CAM, CNC machining, tool design, welding, embedded systems, and low power VLSI digital system design. Emphasis is also being laid on manufacturing, automation, business analytics, big data, cloud computing, wireless technology, image processing, and next generation networks.

IARE has fourteen sponsored research projects, and has received grants of worth Rs. 570.59 lakhs for research and other activities by different agencies including DST, AICTE, UGC etc. The institute has a record of intellectual property with 850+ research paper publications by faculty as well as students and 1705+ citations, 35 patents in last 5 years. Internal Revenue Generation through consultancy facilitates and promotes activities pertaining to energy audit, mobile apps, drones in agriculture, agricultural tools, and material testing.

Big placements greet our students with ample opportunities with around 62 core and software companies visiting the institute every year with 700+ Placements. Placement and training centre is instrumental in signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with many reputed organizations including Capgemini, L&T Infotech, TCS, Cognizant, Accenture, Accolite Digital, Wipro, Mindtree, MPhasis, NTT Data, Infosys, Hexaware, Optum, TEK Systems, Atos Syntel, Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Cyient, Virtusa, Temenos and so on...

To promote incubation centres, start-ups and entrepreneurship, IARE signed an MOU with National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) to cooperate for the development of technologies and their successful transfer to industry for commercial and socio-economic benefits. The students are provided with avenues to showcase their talents and innovative skills. They also participate in various national level engineering competitions like Baja SAEINDIA, Supra SAEINDIA, Go-kart, ADC championships to name a few and have made their mark by winning prizes and ranks. They participate in national and state level project competitions as well as conferences to share their research findings. Students have represented the institute at international level as well.

The central library houses a rich collection of books for all subjects with recent publications. There are about 76,473 books, 20,665 individual titles, nearly 714 National / International Journals, 2715 back volumes, and e-journals from Elsevier (Science Direct), Springer, ASME, ASCE and IEEE (ASPP). Apart from this, the students have an exclusive access to DELNET for resource sharing. The library is open for 10 hours on weekdays and even on Sundays. Book distribution process has been automated for quick and easy access. For circulation of library books ‘Automated Self Service Kiosk’ has been installed, which enables users to issue, return and renew books by themselves.

Institute has state of art infrastructural facilities to support teaching-learning, research and administrative services. The institute is spread over 17 acres with built up area of 3,37,500 sft. housing 65+ smart class rooms, 2 ICT studio rooms,4 flipped classrooms, 4 conference halls, auditorium, 8 research laboratories, 103 academic laboratories, science and technology startup park, technology innovation and incubation center, open air amphitheater, makerspace, community facilitation center, skill development center and library. Campus-wide networking with 600 Mbps internet connectivity, Wi-Fi and CCTV facility is available. To reduce the consumption of electricity efficient lightings are used with solar electric energy of 160 KW on the grid. A captive power of 480 KVA is provided to ensure smooth working of the institute in times of power outage. The institute operates 32 buses for the benefit of students and staff.

IARE has a home away from home with the best amenities for the students to provide them a comfortable lifestyle within a vicinity of 1 km of the campus. The institute provides separate hostels for boys and girls, made to grow as places to support learning not only academics but also life skills in a multi-cultural and multi-lingual environment.

Students are encouraged to participate as actively in sports and other extracurricular activities as in academics. The institute maintains a separate unoccupied open area of 4 acres for the play fields in any time fit condition. Apart from this, the institute also has several sports rooms where students can play and revive their energies and be mentally and physically fit.

The IARE also enjoys geographical advantage, as it is well connected by air, rail and road. The college campus is adjacent to Nehru Outer Ring Road close to Dundigal junction exit-5, making it accessible to several important centers in and around the city. The Campus is situated 20 Km away from Secunderabad railway station and 11 Km from JNTUH University, Kukatpally, in a lush green and pollution free environment.

With its belief in holistic approach to excellence, the institute offers distinct Teaching-Learning Process to push the boundaries of human knowledge. The Institute excels in supporting “Research initiatives among students and faculty members” and “Entrepreneurship drive among students” which makes IARE as one of the best institutions to enhance the performance of the students.

Bachelor of Technology(BTech) courses offered are:
Aeronautical Engineering,Mechanical Engineering,Civil engineering,Computer Science and Engineering,Electronics and Communication Engineering,Electrical and Electronics Engineering,Information Technology,Computer Science and Engineering [Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning]],Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science),Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security),Computer Science and Information Technology.
Master of Business Administration (MBA).

Master of Technology(MTech) courses offered are: M.Tech (Aerospace Engineering),M.Tech (CAD/CAM (Mechanical Engineering),M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering),M.Tech (Embedded Systems),M.Tech (Electrical Power Systems),M.Tech (Structural Engineering). 

Vision

To bring forth professionally competent and socially sensible engineers, capable of working across cultures meeting the global standards ethically.
Mission

To provide students with an extensive and exceptional education that prepares them to excel in their profession, guided by dynamic intellectual community and be able to face the technically complex world with creative leadership qualities.

Further, be instrumental in emanating new knowledge through innovative research that emboldens entrepreneurship and economic development for the benefit of wide spread community.
Quality Policy

Our policy is to nurture and build diligent and dedicated community of engineers providing a professional and unprejudiced environment, thus justifying the purpose of teaching and satisfying the stake holders.

A team of well qualified and experienced professionals ensure quality education with its practical application in all areas of the Institute.
Philosophy.

The essence of learning lies in pursuing the truth that liberates one from the darkness of ignorance and Institute of Aeronautical Engineering firmly believes that education is for liberation.

Contained therein is the notion that engineering education includes all fields of science that plays a pivotal role in the development of world-wide community contributing to the progress of civilization. This institute, adhering to the above understanding, is committed to the development of science and technology in congruence with the natural environs. It lays great emphasis on intensive research and education that blends professional skills and high moral standards with a sense of individuality and humanity. We thus promote ties with local communities and encourage transnational interactions in order to be socially accountable. This accelerates the process of transfiguring the students into complete human beings making the learning process relevant to life, instilling in them a sense of courtesy and responsibility.
Core Values

Excellence: All activities are conducted according to the highest international standards.

Integrity: Adheres to the principles of honesty, trustworthiness, reliability, transparency and accountability.

Inclusiveness: To show respect for ethics, cultural and religious diversity and freedom of thought.

Social Responsibility: Promotes community engagement, environmental sustainability, and global citizenship. It also promotes awareness of, and support for, the needs and challenges of the local and global communities.

Innovation: Supports creative activities that approach challenges and issues from multiple perspectives in order to find solutions and advance knowledge.

With the fast paced ever-growing markets having global outlook, the demand for well-trained multi-skilled engineers and entrepreneurs has risen. The competition in the industry has increased and so have the standards that define engineering. Institute of Aeronautical Engineering has always strived to excel in technical and managerial arenas. Over the past 17 years, our strong alumni placed in prominent companies have made us proud. Our placements over the years have increased with many eminent companies visiting our campus. We make sure that students do not believe only in textbook learning approach but also in a holistic approach required to nurture their latest skills. In a short span, we have successfully made a mark in the corporate world. Our students have always set high benchmarks, competing with students all around the globe.

In line with institute vision and mission, we aim at providing excellent academic ambiance, student centric teaching-learning process, state-of-the-art infrastructure, highly qualified and experienced faculties and an overall dynamic and disciplined workplace. To meet pace with fast emerging technologies and rapidly changing world around, we try to nurture attitude of a leader and a lifelong learner among our students.

I feel privileged to invite students seeking quality engineering education, academicians, recruiters and industry professionals to experience the vibrancy with the budding technocrats of future, at IARE.

IARE Objectives:
Towards Pursuit of Excellence
Creating an excellent academic ambience in the campus
Developing a team of dedicated and motivated team of faculty
Providing excellent infrastructural facilities
Strengthening consultancy, R & D and continuing education activities
Promoting Entrepreneurship Development
Networking with national and international institutions of higher learning
Effective interfacing and synergy with industries
Commencement of Post Graduate programmes in emerging areas and setting up research programmes
Achieving International recognition.

Salient Features:
IARE aims in inculcating the following graduate attributes

    Strong knowledge base for engineering : Demonstrate proficiency in mathematics, science and fundamentals of engineering.
    In depth knowledge of the field of study : Sufficient breadth and depth of knowledge and understanding of engineering subjects in respective fields.

    Problem Solving skills : Ability to identify, devise, analyze, and solve problems.

    Investigate Engineering problems : Ability to conduct investigations of problems by methods that include appropriate experiments, analysis and interpretation of data and synthesis of information in order to reach valid conclusions.

    Designing solutions : Demonstrate efficacy in designing solutions for complex, engineering problems and to design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs with due attention to economic, environmental, cultural, societal and global considerations.
    Utilize Modern Tools : Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering and IT tools.

    Individual and team work : An ability to work independently and as part of a team.

    Interpersonal and Communication skills : Ability to communicate engineering concepts precisely and effectively, not only with engineers but also with the community at large. Such ability includes reading, writing, speaking and listening, and the ability to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, and to give and effectively respond to clear instructions.

    Professionalism : An understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the engineer in society, especially the primary role of protection of the public and the public interest.

    Safeguard Environment and Society : An ability to investigate social and aspects of engineering activities.

    Ethical Value : Ability to function as responsible individuals with ethical accountable to society at large.

    Life-long learning : To be enthusiastic and eager for undertaking life-long learning the continual updating of engineering skills and further to contribute to the advancement of knowledge.

Admission Procedure

Upon recommendations of University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi and the State Government, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad has conferred Autonomous Status to the Institute from Academic year 2016-17, whereby the College will award Degree on behalf of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad.

Admissions to the Institute are made along with the other engineering colleges in the state through a common entrance test conducted by the Govt. of Telangana.
The Eligibility Criteria for Admission to B.Tech Courses :

The minimum qualification for admission to first year of the B.Tech course is a pass in the Intermediate (10 + 2) conducted by the board of Intermediate education, Govt. of Telangana or any other examination recognized as equivalent thereto with Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry as optional subjects.

    70 % of the seats are allotted based on the merit in the Engineering and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) conducted by Govt. of Telangana.
    30 % of the seats are earmarked for Management / NRI candidates.
    In addition to the above, Diploma holders are admitted in second year of B.Tech to the extent of 20% of intake   based on the merit in the Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET), under lateral entry scheme conducted by Govt. of Telangana.

The Eligibility Criteria for Admission to M.Tech Courses :

    M.Tech – Aerospace Engineering: B.E / B.Tech in Aeronautical Engineering / Mechanical Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the test conducted by JNTU.
    M.Tech – Computer Science & Engineering: B.E / B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the test conducted by JNTU.
    M.Tech - Embedded Systems: B.E / B.Tech in Electronics and Communications Engineering / Electrical and Electronics Engineering / Computer Science and Engineering / Information Technology / Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU.
    M.Tech – Electrical Power Systems: B.E / B.Tech in Electrical and Electronics Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the test conducted by JNTU.
    M.Tech – Computer Aided Design / Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM): B.E / B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the test conducted by JNTU.
    M.Tech - Structural Engineering: B.E / B.Tech in Civil Engineering / Construction Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the test conducted by JNTU.  

The Eligibility Criteria for Admission to MBA Course:

The minimum qualification for admission to first year of the MBA is a pass in undergraduate course (10 + 2 + 3).

    70% of the seats are allotted based on the merit in the Integrated Common Entrance  Test (ICET) conducted by Govt. of Telangana.
    30% of the seats are earmarked for Management / NRI candidates.

Campus Life:

One of the most important criteria for selecting an institute is its campus. Keeping this in mind, the campus of IARE has been built to promote the overall growth of students.The institute believes that the true potentials of students cannot be realized through academics alone. The students need to be provided with opportunities for exploring and enhancing their talents in extra- curricular activities as well. Accordingly, our academic programs are backed up with appropriate co- curricular and extra-curricular inputs promoting culture, sports, self-governance, ethics and values; all of which help the students towards becoming complete.


Besides focusing on lectures,Internships and field trips, the institute curriculum encourages involvement in brain strengthening games, talent shows, debates, volunteer work & community services, women empowerment workshops, fitness sessions and much more. Amalgamation of academics and non-academic activities keeps the campus vibrant and enjoyable, giving a chance to students to make unforgettable memories at graduates and post-graduates levels.

People can connect with an area through attending events that make them to spend time together, enjoy and experience the diversity of cultures, stimulate creativity and innovation. 

This occasions are filled up with joy and unity that will make you realize the beauty afresh. Be it be an any occasion, but that will definitely capture more of those lovely moments for you and the people around you.

Student Clubs:

Academic grades are imperative for job applications and career success, many employers are also looking for well-rounded candidates with demonstrated participation in extra-curricular activities. IARE provide students with both academic and non-academic clubs, to promote personal and professional development. 

“Participation in the work of various clubs on campus provides students an opportunity to acquire leadership, planning, and social skills that are important for successful living.”
Benefits

IARE not only provides career opportunities to students but also improves them with personal and social skills, enhancing the overall collegiate experience. clubs and extra-curricular activities are “extremely important in helping students develop lifelong good working habits which hone their communication skills and foster creative thinking. Students can learn valuable character traits such as pride and productivity and also work as part of a team towards a common goal.

In addition to helping foster practical skills such as time management, leadership, and responsibility, extra-curricular activities allow students to “test the waters” and explore new areas of interest. Additionally, successfully balancing the time commitments involved in participating in clubs with those necessary to maintain good grades helps prepare students for balancing the demands of a career, family and other life obligations. Iare conducts celebrations like world Environment Day,International womens day,Teachers day,Engineer's day,science day,Yoga day,save girl child day,voters day. Iare Events:Spandana-Annual Day, Evoke-Alumni Meet, Orientation Day, Horizon-Freshers Day,Samvaad-parent Teacher Meet, Gradution Day, Traditional Day, ciyaraah-sports week.


Iare Events:
Spandana - Annual Day
Evoke - Alumni Meet
Orientation Day
Horizon- Freshers Day
Samvaad - Parent Teacher Meet
Graduation Day
Traditional Day
Ciyaraah - Sports Week.

Iare Fests:
CONSORTIUM - Technical Fest
CONCOCT - Product Expo
LEXICON - Coding Hackathon
METE - Project Expo.


IARE Campus Management System(CMS):
For Attendance, Faculty Login or Student Login, Exam result: please visit https://samvidha.iare.ac.in/ .

Iare E-learning platform:
https://akanksha.iare.ac.in/ .

Iare Build-IT(Coding Platform):
https://buildit.iare.ac.in/ .

Iare brochure:
https://www.iare.ac.in/IARE_2021-22_Brochure.pdf .

Dr. L V Narasimha Prasad, Principal of Institute of Aeronautical Engineering and Professor of CSE.

For Iare Faculty profiles:
visit: https://www.iare.ac.in/?q=departmentlist/29.

Iare departments : Aeronautical Engineering,Computer Science and Engineering (AI & ML),Computer Science and  Engineering,Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science), Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security), Computer Science and Information Technology, Information Technology, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering,Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering .


for Iare course syllabus catalog:
visit:https://www.iare.ac.in/?q=pages/course-catalog-ug20.



For more informtion or support mail:
mail: support@iare.ac.in .





